# Sudoku
A Web Application for Sudoku, the well-known logic &amp; mathematics based puzzle game. The solution is built with the following technology stack:

1. NodeJS/Express
2. Angular 8
3. HTML5
4. CSS3
5. Karma/Jasmine
6. Nginx
7. Bootstrap

---

# Backend - NodeJS

## Algorithm:
This Application uses the Backtracking algorithm to generate a solved Sudoku Board.  
Backtacking algorithm solves a problem recursively, by solving each part of the problem incremently until the full problem is solved.

To generate a solved Sudoku Board, we give the program an empty board and ask it to solve it using the algorithm.

The following logic is implemented:

1. Generate empty 9x9 board
2. Search to find next empty location in board. If location is not found, then board is SOLVED.
3. Generate new number between 1 to 9
4. Validate number before inserting in found location
   - Check validity by row to insert in location
   - Check validity by col to insert in location
   - Check validity by 3x3 grid (respective to that location) to insert in location
   - If all validations successful, insert item into board. Else loop back to step 3.
5. Repeat step 2 recursively, until all locations filled
6. Board is SOLVED.


## Unit Testing:
The unit testing for this application was done with Jasmine, and the whole application is designed to follow a Test Driven Development approach.

The following tests are implemented:

1. Solve Board
   - for an invalid partly-filled board
   - for a valid emplty or partly-filled board
2. Find unassigned location in board
   - returns true if location found for an unsolved board
   - returns false if location not found for a completed board
3. Validate number insertion in a partly solved and an invalid board
   - returns true if insertion of number in 9x9 board is possible
   - returns true if insertion of number in row is possible
   - returns true if insertion of number in col is possible
   - returns true if insertion of number in its respective 3x3 grid of board is possible

## Build Application:
To build the application,  
1. Download the solution
2. Open command prompt (Windows) or terminal (Mac or Linux) in the project root
3. Run the following command: `npm run build`
4. The project automatically runs all tests, and builds the application.

## Note:
By default the application is hosted on localhost:3000  
To run the application on a desired port, run the following command to change default port:

```
Mac/Linux:  
In Terminal: export PORT=1234

Windows:  
In Command Prompt: set PORT=1234  
In Powershell: $env:PORT = 1234
```
---

# Front End - Angular 8
A SPA Web Application to display the resolved Sudoku Board.

The application gets an array of integers from the API generated by the NodeJS Application, and converts it to a 2-Dimensional Array to display it in the view.

## Unit Testing:
The unit testing for this application was done with Karma & Jasmine, and the whole application is designed to follow a Test Driven Development approach.

The following tests are implemented:

1. Service Tests:  
   - Get an Observable Array of integers from the API
2. Component Tests:  
   - Get an Array of integers from the Service  
   - Function to convert a 1D array to a 2D array of integers  

# Web Server - Nginx
A Nginx Web Server was setup to host the Web Application locally on port 8080 using a reverse proxy on the Web Application's default port of 4200.

The nginx config file was updated as below:  
```
server {
  listen       8080;
  listen [::]:8080;
  server_name  localhost;
  
  location / {
      proxy_set_header   X-Forwarded-For $remote_addr;
      proxy_set_header   Host $http_host;
      proxy_pass         http://localhost:4200/;
      proxy_http_version 1.1;
      proxy_set_header   Upgrade $http_upgrade;
      proxy_set_header   Connection "upgrade";
  }
```